





S U N  Microsystems  MEMORANDUM





	      Version: @(#)instructions 1.1 86/09/25 Copyright Sun Micro
                Date : 10/04/84
                  To : Jon Garmon
                From : Tom Kraus
               Phone : 960-3300 x317
             Subject : Using the Monitor Diagnostic/Exerciser
        Distribution : Terry Horwath


     The program (vid.120.pat) which displays  various  pat-
terns  on  the  monitor of the Model 120 Sun Workstation has
been enhanced.  The program is now capable of displaying the
patterns  continuously  (continuous mode) or, as before, the
patterns can be displayed on  an  individual  basis  (single
selection  mode).   What  follows  are  the instructions for
using the program.

     Assuming that a copy of program vid.120.pat resides  in
the  directory  that  you  are  currently in, the program is
called by typing "vid.120.pat" and pressing the RETURN  key.
There  are  three  menus  associated  with the program.  The
three menus are titled the (1) Primary Option Menu, (2) Con-
tinuous  Mode  Menu and (3) Single Selection Mode Menu.  The
Primary Option Menu will appear after the program is called.

1.   The Primary Option Menu has  three  options  associated
     with  it.   Each  of  these options is explained below.
     Notice that, these options are selected by  typing  the
     proper  character  only.   It is NOT necessary to press
     the RETURN key after typing a character.  In fact, that
     will cause one of the sub-menus to be redisplayed.

     a.   Option "c" (continuous mode) places the program in
          continuous  mode.   The  Continuous Mode Menu will
          appear if this option is selected.

     b.   Option "s" (single selection mode) causes the pro-
          gram  to  enter  single  selection  mode.  If this
          option is chosen, the Single Selection  Mode  Menu
          will be displayed.

     c.   Option "q" (quit) terminates the program.

     If any other non-fatal character  is  typed  (excluding
     "c",  "s"  and  "q"),  the  Primary Option Menu will be
     redisplayed.   An  example  of  a  fatal  character  is
     "control-C".   Typing a "control-C" would terminate the
     program.



                      October 4, 1984





                           - 2 -


2.   The Continuous Mode Menu also has three options.  These
     options are explained below.  In order to select one of
     the options, type the character  which  corresponds  to
     the  desired  option.   Again,  it  is not necessary to
     press the RETURN key after typing  the  character.   If
     the  RETURN  key  is  pressed, the Continuous Mode Menu
     will be redisplayed.

     a.   Option "b" initiates a  continuous  display  of  a
          pattern  sequence.  Each pattern sequence consists
          of a total of sixteen  different  patterns.   Ini-
          tially,  each  of  the eight non-inverted patterns
          will appear on  the  screen,  one  after  another.
          Next,  all  eight of the inverted patterns will be
          displayed individually.  After each display of the
          pattern sequence, another sequence will follow.

          Assuming that the machine never goes down and  the
          keyboard  is  never touched, the patterns would be
          displayed forever.   There  are  several  ways  to
          interrupt the continuous display of patterns, how-
          ever.

          In order to terminate the program while  the  pat-
          terns  are  being  displayed, a "q" must be typed.
          To return to the Primary  Option  Menu  while  the
          patterns  are  being displayed, the <esc> key must
          be pressed.  To return to the Continuous Mode Menu
          while  the  patterns are being displayed, any non-
          fatal character (excluding <esc> and "q")  can  be
          typed.  If a fatal character is typed, the program
          will terminate.

     b.   Option <esc> (pressing the ESCAPE key) causes  the
          program  to  return  to  the  Primary Option Menu.
          From the Primary Option Menu, it would now be pos-
          sible to enter single selection mode (by selecting
          option "s").

     c.   Option "q" (quit) terminates the program.

     If any other non-fatal character (excluding  <esc>  and
     "q")  is typed, either from the Continuous Mode Menu or
     during the continuous display of patterns, the Continu-
     ous Mode Menu will be redisplayed.

3.   The Single  Selection  Mode  Menu  has  twelve  options
     available.   Option  1-8  are discussed together while,
     the other four options are explained individually.   In
     order  to  chose  one of these options, type the proper
     character.  There is no need to press  the  RETURN  key
     after  typing  the  character.   If  the  RETURN key is
     pressed, the Single Selection Mode Menu will reappear.




                      October 4, 1984





                           - 3 -


     a.   Options "1", "2", "3", "4", "5", "6", "7" and  "8"
          cause  a  pattern  to  be displayed until the user
          interrupts  the   program.   Each   number   (1-8)
          corresponds  to  a  different pattern.  A model of
          each pattern appears on the Single Selection  Mode
          Menu.   The patterns can be interrupted in several
          ways.

          If an "r" (return to Single Selection  Mode  Menu)
          or  any  other non-fatal character (excluding "i",
          <esc> and "q") is typed while a pattern  is  being
          shown,  the  Single Selection Mode Menu will reap-
          pear.  This enables the  user  to  select  another
          pattern for display.  Typing an "i" will cause the
          pattern currently being displayed to  be  inverted
          (see  option  "i"  below).   If  the ESCAPE key is
          pressed while a pattern is on the screen, the Pri-
          mary  Option  Menu  will  reappear.   Typing a "q"
          while a pattern is being displayed terminates  the
          program.  Finally, typing a fatal character, while
          a pattern is being displayed, will also  terminate
          the program.

     b.   Option "i" inverts the patterns.  That is, if  the
          foreground  of  the pattern is black and the back-
          ground is white, pressing "i" will cause the fore-
          ground  to  become  white  and  the  background to
          become black.

     c.   Option <esc> (pressing the ESCAPE key) causes  the
          program  to  return  to  the  Primary Option Menu.
          This gives the user the opportunity to enter  con-
          tinuous  mode  (by  selecting  option "c" from the
          Primary Option Menu) after being in single  selec-
          tion mode.

     d.   Option "q" (quit) terminates the program.

     If any other non-fatal character (excluding <esc>, "1",
     "2",  "3",  "4",  "5",  "6",  "7", "8", "i" and "q") is
     typed, either from the Single Selection  Mode  Menu  or
     during  the  display of a pattern, the Single Selection
     Mode Menu will be redisplayed.


     If there are any questions  and/or  comments  regarding
the content of this memo, please feel free to contact me.










                      October 4, 1984


